-AND KIMBERLY AND I
WERE REALLY ALIGNED ON,
"NO, THERE ISN'T TIME FOR THAT.
WE NEED TO USE THE MEDIA.
"WE NEED TO GET THESE MESSAGES
OUT AS EFFECTIVELY AS POSSIBLE
TO THE ENTIRE WORLD
AND AS SOON AS POSSIBLE."
-YEAH.
-AND THEN WE STARTED
WORKING TOGETHER
AS ASSOCIATES ON THE FILM,
AND THEN JUST FELL IN LOVE
AS WE WORKED TOGETHER.
SO WE REALLY STARTED AS FRIENDS
AND COLLEAGUES,
AND THEN IT DEVELOPED INTO A
WONDERFUL, LOVING RELATIONSHIP.
-THE FILM YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
IS THE "THRIVE" FILM.
-YEAH.
-SO YOU CAME TOGETHER
FOR THE SAKE OF THE FILM,
AND THE RELATIONSHIP
BLOSSOMED OUT OF THAT.
-EXACTLY.
-OVER THE LAST 10 YEARS IT TOOK,
YEAH.
-SO YOU GUYS HAVE BEEN WORKING
ON IT FOR 10 YEARS,
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON FILM.
-YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
WE KNEW WE HAD THIS SHARED
VISION, AND WE LIKED EACH OTHER,
AND THEN IT
JUST SORT OF EVOLVED.
WE ALWAYS KNEW
IT WOULD BE A FILM
BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE SHARED
WAS THAT WE KNEW WE WANTED TO
USE THE MEDIA IN THAT WAY,
BUT WE DIDN'T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT THE MOTIF WOULD BE.
-I KNEW FROM COLLEGE
THAT I WANTED TO MAKE A FILM
ABOUT WHAT'S IN THE WAY
OF OUR THRIVING
AND WHAT CAN WE DO ABOUT IT.
BUT WHEN I GRADUATED AND WAS
EXPECTED TO GO TO HOLLYWOOD
AND MAKE FILMS AND SO FORTH,
I REALIZED I'VE GOT NOTHING
IMPORTANT ENOUGH TO SAY
THAT'S WORTH ALL THAT MONEY
AND TIME AND HASSLE
AND TECHNOLOGY
AND EVERYTHING TO DO THAT.
BUT I SAID, "INSTEAD, I'M GOING
TO DEDICATE MY ENERGIES
"TO FIGURING OUT THE ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION,
"AND IF I FIND ANSWERS THAT ARE
COMMENSURATE WITH THE PROBLEM --
"WHAT'S REALLY GOING ON AND WHAT
CAN WE REALLY DO ABOUT IT? --
THEN I'LL MAKE A MOVIE."
I FIGURED MAYBE
IT'D TAKE 10 YEARS
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
OVER 40 YEARS LATER,
HERE WE ARE.
-WE CO-WROTE IT,
AND I DIRECTED IT,
AND SO, AS A COUPLE,
WE DECIDED THAT OUR RELATIONSHIP
WOULD BE PRIMARY.
-AND I'VE JUST COME TO REALIZE
THAT I AM WAY MORE ELOQUENT,
MORE EFFECTIVE
IN MY ARTISTIC EXPRESSION,
WHEN I'M IN CO-CREATIVE
PARTNERSHIP WITH KIMBERLY
THAN I WOULD BE ON MY OWN,
AND SHE'S SAID THE SAME,
AND I THINK THAT REALLY SPEAKS
TO THE DYNAMIC OF SYNERGY,
WHERE THE WHOLE IS WAY MORE
THAN THE SUM OF THE PARTS.
AND I THINK THAT'S A LOT
OF WHAT WE'RE SEEING GOING ON
IN THE WORLD NOW.
AS PEOPLE ARE MORE AND MORE
WORKING ON THEMSELVES
AND FULFILLING
THEIR OWN POTENTIAL
MORE AND MORE AS AN INDIVIDUAL,
THEY'RE NATURALLY FINDING OTHER
PARTNERS WHO ARE DOING THE SAME,
AND THE NEXT LEVEL
OF FULFILLMENT
IS IN CO-CREATIVE PARTNERSHIP
SO THAT THE COMMUNICATION
IS TOROIDAL PROCESS.
IT ACTUALLY
IS WHOLE AND COMPLETE,
AND THAT WAS
ABSOLUTELY INVALUABLE
AND I THINK ONE OF THE REASONS
WHY "THRIVE" HAS GONE SO VIRAL.
-THE GREATEST ART FORM
I'VE EVER BEEN EXPOSED TO
IS THE ART OF LIFE.
SOME PEOPLE SAY THAT YOU HAVE TO
KNOW AND LOVE YOURSELF
BEFORE YOU CAN LOVE ANOTHER.
THAT OTHER PERSON SAYS,
"YOU'RE NOT DOING A GOOD JOB
ON YOUR OWN."
CATCH-22, HUH?
YOU NEED TO LOVE YOURSELF
BEFORE YOU CAN LOVE ANYONE ELSE,
YET THE EASIEST WAY TO GET THERE
IS TO TRAVEL THAT ROAD TOGETHER.
TO MASTER AN ART FORM,
YOU PRACTICE, YOU EXPERIMENT,
EXPLORE, YOU FALL,
YOU GET BACK UP.
YOUR PARTNER FALLS,
YOU HELP THEM BACK UP.
MISTAKES ARE RECOGNIZED,
BUT NOT CRITICIZED.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS ARE CELEBRATED,
NOT BOASTED.
YOU ALLOW YOUR PARTNER TO BE
YOUR MIRROR, NOT YOUR BURDEN.
EVERY MOVE EMPOWERS
THE NEXT ONE,
NEVER DISMISSES
OR DIMINISHES IT,
TO SUCH A DEGREE THAT EVERY MOVE
YOU MAKE IN LIFE
IS BUT A SINGLE FRAME
IN A MOVIE.
YOU DON'T STOP ON A SINGLE FRAME
BECAUSE IT FEELS GOOD,
NOR DO YOU SKIP OVER IT.
THE OLD FRAMES
NATURALLY PASS YOU BY,
WHETHER GOOD, BAD,
OR INDIFFERENT,
AND YOU REALIZE THAT THIS MOVIE
IS A NEVER-ENDING PROCESS,
AN ART FORM.
YOU CAN GROW WITH IT
OR DECAY IN SPITE OF IT.
-YOU KNOW, IT'S FUNNY --
I REMEMBER ALICE WALKER SAID,
"IF ART DOESN'T MAKE YOU BETTER,
THEN WHAT ON EARTH IS IT FOR?"
AND I THINK, REALLY,
IF A RELATIONSHIP
DOESN'T MAKE YOU BETTER,
WHAT ON EARTH IS IT FOR?
I MEAN,
WE'RE ALL HERE TO EVOLVE.
-I MET FOSTER AND KIMBERLY
IN CHICHEN ITZA
ON DECEMBER 21, 2012...
FLOODED WITH NEW-AGERS
AND OLD HEADS,
SPEAKING ABOUT THE MOST COHERENT
ALL THE WAY TO THE MOST
NONSENSICAL THINGS
REGARDING THE MAYAN CALENDAR,
SPIRITUAL TRANSFORMATION,
AND THE IMMINENT
ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE.
BOTH KIMBERLY AND FOSTER
WERE DOWN-TO-EARTH, ELOQUENT,
AND SIMPLY TWO LOVERS
LIVING LIFE
AND SHOWING THE SIMPLICITY
OF LIVING FROM THE HEART.
IT DIDN'T TAKE MUCH TO RECOGNIZE
THAT THE POWER OF THEIR IDEAS
FOR THE WORLD
IS ROOTED IN THE SAME LOVE
THEY FEEL FOR ONE ANOTHER.
HOW DO YOU THINK THE FILM
WOULD HAVE DIFFERED
HAD IT NOT BEEN BOOSTED OR
IMPROVED BY YOUR RELATIONSHIP?
-WELL, I'D LOVE TO ANSWER THAT,
BECAUSE I HAVE RECEIVED
SUCH A POWERFUL TEACHING
OF, FIRST OF ALL, THE GENTLE
POWER OF FEMININE ENERGY --
THAT WILD, CHAOTIC ENERGY WHICH,
IF BROUGHT INTO ART,
BROUGHT INTO RATIONAL DISCOURSE,
HAS A WAY OF GOING TO THE HEART
BEYOND JUST THE INTELLECT,
BEYOND AN ANGRY, RANTING MALE
ABOUT THE SKY IS FALLING
AND SO FORTH.
SO, KIMBERLY WAS THE DIRECTOR
ON THE FILM,
AND SHE REALLY HELPED ME
ON THE SET,
PARTICULARLY WHEN I WAS
NARRATING
THE GLOBAL-DOMINATION
AGENDA SECTION,
TO NOT GET CAUGHT UP
IN MY OWN INTENSE EMOTION
ABOUT THE DESTRUCTION
OF BILLIONS OF LIVES
AT THE HANDS OF A FEW PEOPLE.
BUT SHE KEPT SAYING,
"COME FROM YOUR CONFIDENCE
"ABOUT THE WAY OUT, AND THEN
JUST DELIVER THE INFORMATION
"SO THAT PEOPLE HAVE ROOM
FOR THEIR OWN EMOTIONAL RESPONSE
RATHER THAN HAVING
TO FIGHT OFF YOURS."
AND I DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT SHE MEANT AT FIRST,
BUT SHE KEPT COACHING ME
UNTIL, FINALLY, THERE WAS A TAKE
THAT SHE SAID,
"YEAH, THAT'S WHAT
I WAS LOOKING FOR,"
AND I STEPPED OFF THE SET
AND MOST OF THE CREW
WAS IN TEARS.
THEY'D ACTUALLY BEEN REALLY
MOVED BY THIS NASTY INFORMATION,
AND THAT'S THE POWER
OF THAT FEMININE ENERGY
THAT I THINK REALLY NEEDS TO
EMERGE BACK INTO THE WORLD NOW
IF WE'RE REALLY GOING TO,
NOT ONLY UNDERSTAND
AND INTEGRATE WHAT'S GOING ON,
BUT FIND HARMONIOUS WAYS
OUT OF IT.
THERE'S A GUY
NAMED JOHN DAVID GARCIA.
HE SAID THAT, TO HIM,
"BEAUTY IS THE CONSCIOUS
PERCEPTION OF OBJECTIVE TRUTH
"BEING COMMUNICATED
TO OUR UNCONSCIOUS,
AND THE GREATER THE OBJECTIVE
TRUTH, THE GREATER THE BEAUTY."
AND THE REASON I'M SAYING THAT
IS THAT ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M REALLY VALUING
FROM IN OUR RELATIONSHIP
IS MICROSCOPIC HONESTY.
AND FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE, THAT
WOULD BE A VERY SCARY NOTION,
BUT KIMBERLY HAS SHOWN ME
THAT THE MORE MICROSCOPICALLY
HONEST WE ARE
ABOUT SHARING WHAT MATTERS
WITH EACH OTHER,
THE GREATER THE SPACE FOR LOVE.
AND THAT TAKES A LOT OF TRUST
TO REALLY MICROSCOPICALLY
SHARE YOURSELF --
WHAT YOU'RE RIGHT ABOUT,
WHAT YOU'RE WRONG ABOUT,
WHAT YOU'RE AFRAID ABOUT,
WHAT YOU ENJOY ABOUT,
AND SO FORTH.
BUT SHE HAS SHOWN ME THAT SHE
WANTS TO KNOW WHO I REALLY AM
AND IS CAPABLE OF HOLDING THAT
AND EVEN FEEDING BACK
USEFUL THINGS
WITHOUT ANY SHAMING AT ALL.
SO FOR ME, IT'S LIKE,
"OKAY, I GET TO EXHALE HERE
"AND ACTUALLY BE MYSELF AND
IMPROVE MYSELF FROM DAY-TO-DAY
"BECAUSE I'M IN THE ENVIRONMENT
OF SOMEONE
"WHO'S LOVING ME
FOR MY WHOLE SELF,
"NOT EXPECTING ME TO ALWAYS HAVE
IT ALL TOGETHER,
BUT STILL SEEING ME AS WHOLE
IN THAT GROWTH PROCESS."
AND THAT REALLY CAME OUT
IN THE FILM
BECAUSE WE WERE ABLE TO EXPLORE
SUCH DEPTHS OF FEAR AND SADNESS
AND JOY AND UNKNOWING
WITH EACH OTHER AS PARTNERS
AND THEN HAVE THE FRUITS OF THAT
GO OUT IN THE COMMUNICATION
OF THE FILM.
SO I THINK CO-CREATIVE ART AND
CO-CREATIVE EXPRESSION OF TRUTH,
OR COMMUNICATION OF TRUTH, IS
WHAT I'M SEEING EMERGING FOR US,
BUT REALLY I'M SEEING IT
EMERGING ALL OVER THE WORLD.
-I FEEL LIKE WHAT WE'VE BEEN
ABLE TO OFFER IS MORE CLARITY
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
FOR PEOPLE TO DO THEIR PART,
NOT ALL OF IT.
YOU KNOW, I'M LIKE AN ACTIVIST
FROM THE '60s AT U.C. BERKELEY
AND STUFF LIKE THAT,
AND THE OLD PARADIGM ACTIVISM
IS THAT YOU'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT AN ISSUE
AND YOU JUST GOT TO GIVE
YOUR LIFE TO IT,
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
BURN OUT THAT WAY.
AND I THINK THE WHOLE NOTION
OF BEING ABLE TO IDENTIFY
YOUR OWN PURPOSE --
AND WE HAVE LEVELS OF ENGAGEMENT
AND JUST KIND DISTINGUISH
FOR PEOPLE,
"WHAT'S YOUR PART AT THIS TIME?"
AND IF YOU DO THAT
AND ACTUALLY COME FROM THERE,
THEN YOU'RE IN JOY,
WHAT YOU'RE OFFERING
IS SUSTAINABLE,
AND WE GOT A LONG HAUL
IN FRONT OF US.
AND SO THIS IS OUR PART --
YOU KNOW, THIS IS MY PART,
THIS IS FOSTER'S, THIS IS OURS,
THIS IS YOURS, THIS IS --
AND TO REALLY SHOW THAT
THAT'S ACTUALLY THE BEST WAY.
THAT'S JUST NOT LIKE,
"OH, WELL. WE CAN'T DO IT ALL."
IT'S LIKE, "WE'RE NOT
SUPPOSED TO DO IT ALL."
-IT TOOK ME MANY TIMES OVER
LISTENING TO THESE WORDS
KIMBERLY OFFERED
TO UNDERSTAND WHY SHE FELT IT
SO IMPORTANT
TO STRESS DOING YOUR OWN PART
AND LETTING OTHERS
TAKE CARE OF THEIRS.
LIFE LIVED IN THIS WAY
IS LESS ABOUT EFFICIENCY
AND MORE ABOUT QUALITY.
IT'S AS IF WE'RE PLACED ON EARTH
IN THIS BODY
NOT TO ACCOMPLISH TASKS
LIKE SPARKING REVOLUTIONS
AND BUILDING BIGGER BUSINESSES
AND NOT TO GET BETTER AND FASTER
AT OUTPUT AND PRODUCTION,
BUT TO SPEND YOUR WHOLE LIFE
IN SEARCH OF AND TRULY SUCCEED
AT ONE THING --
ACCEPTING SOMEBODY
FOR EVERYTHING THAT THEY ARE.
IT SOUNDS SIMPLE --
TOO SIMPLE --
SO SIMPLE, IN FACT,
THAT HARDLY ANYONE
KNOWS HOW TO DO IT ANYMORE.
I MEAN, WE CAN BUILD SKYSCRAPERS
AND PUT PEOPLE ON THE MOON...
-...OF LANDING A MAN ON THE MOON
AND RETURNING HIM
SAFELY TO THE EARTH.
NO SINGLE SPACE PROJECT
IN THIS PERIOD
WILL BE MORE IMPRESSIVE
TO MANKIND.
-...OR, ACCORDING TO
6% TO 20% OF AMERICANS,
WE CAN AT LEAST STAGE IT
AND SUCCESSFULLY FOOL BILLIONS.
EITHER WAY, IT TAKES
A LOT OF PLANNING, TIME, ENERGY,
TRIAL AND ERROR TO ACCOMPLISH
ALL THE SCIENTIFIC
AND TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS
WE'VE SEEN IN SUCH A SHORT
PERIOD OF GLOBAL HISTORY,
BUT WE GIVE HALF-ASSED ATTEMPTS
AT APOLOGIES
AND LITTLE TO NO COMPASSION
TO OURSELVES.
WE'VE BEEN SO HYPNOTIZED
BY OUR BRILLIANCE
THAT WE FEEL THE NEED
TO CONTINUALLY PROVE IT
MORE AND MORE IN A MATERIAL WAY,
AND YET WE FORGET ABOUT
THE BRILLIANCE THAT IT TAKES
TO LET YOURSELF FALL IN LOVE,
TO SUPPORT A FAMILY
WITH YOUR UNDIVIDED ATTENTION
RATHER THAN VACATIONS AND TOYS.
THAT REQUIRES TRUST,
A CERTAIN FORM OF BRILLIANCE
NEARLY EXTINCT
IN OUR CULTURE TODAY.
BUT TRUST IS SIMPLY
A COMBINATION
OF YOU HAVING A SOLID GRASP
ON REALITY AND OWNING IT,
UNDERSTANDING LIFE
AT THIS MOMENT AND ACCEPTING IT.
THAT'S TRUST.
IF YOU HAVE AN AGENDA IN MIND
FOR YOUR RELATIONSHIP
AND YOU EXPECT THE OTHER
TO PROVIDE YOU
WITH HAPPINESS,
SECURITY, LOVE, SEX,
THEN YOU'RE BASING YOUR TRUST
ON THE POSSIBLE FUTURE ACTIONS
OF SOMEONE ELSE WHOM YOU
OBVIOUSLY CLAIM YOU DON'T KNOW
BECAUSE YOUR PICK-UP LINE
WAS PROBABLY SOMETHING LIKE,
"I WANT TO GET TO KNOW YOU
BETTER."
WHY NOT PLACE YOUR TRUST IN
YOUR ABILITY TO LOVE SOMEONE?
THEN THE TRUST IS BASED
ON AN ABILITY
THAT YOU KNOW YOU HAVE --
TO TRUST SOMEONE COMPLETELY,
KNOWING THAT THEY WILL TRIP UP,
THEY WILL LASH OUT,
THEY WILL HURT YOU,
AND THEY WILL LIE TO YOU,
AND DESPITE THESE ACTIONS,
DESPITE THE THINGS THAT THEY DO,
YOU STILL LOVE THEM
BECAUSE OF WHO THEY ARE.
IF YOU CAN LEARN TO DO THAT
WITH JUST ONE PERSON,
THEN THE CHANGE IS IRREVERSIBLE.
YOU CAN DO IT WITH ANYONE.
YOU FOUND THE FORMULA TO LIFE.
YOU'VE SOLVED THE MYSTERY.
YOU GET THE COSMIC JOKE,
AND YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT DRUG
JOHN LENNON WAS REALLY HIGH ON.
-THE CONNECTION BETWEEN
MINDFULNESS AND ACTIVISM,
I FEEL LIKE IT'S A NATURAL THING
TO ENGAGE IN WANTING TO USE
WHO WE ARE ON BEHALF OF HELPING.
I MEAN, THERE'S SO MUCH PAIN
AND SUFFERING OUT THERE
THAT I THINK ANYBODY
IN A HEALTHY STATE
IS NATURALLY MOVED,
THAT IT'S BUILT IN US TO BE
EMPATHETIC WITH ONE ANOTHER.
AND THE ONLY THING
THAT PREVENTS THAT
IS A DISTRACTION OF OUR OWN.
AND SO, AS WE PRACTICE
OUR MINDFULNESS
AND HELP RESOLVE
THOSE DISTRACTIONS,
IT IS NATURAL THEN TO EXPRESS
OURSELVES IN THE WORLD
IN WHATEVER WAY IS RIGHT.
AND LIKE FOSTER SAID,
IS THAT MUSICALLY
OR THROUGH FILM
OR THROUGH NURSING
OR THROUGH MOTHERING
OR THROUGH WHATEVER IT IS?
THERE ISN'T A RIGHT USE OF YOU
THAT ANYONE CAN KNOW BUT YOU.
YOU KNOW, WE DID A FUN INTERVIEW
RECENTLY WITH A GUY --
RICK ARCHER
AT BUDDHA AT THE GAS PUMP.
AND HE WAS TALKING ABOUT HOW
HE WAS REALLY INTO MEDITATING
IN THE '60s,
AND I WAS TALKING ABOUT
HOW I WAS REALLY AN ACTIVIST
IN THE '60s,
AND THAT HE KIND OF THOUGHT,
"OH, THE ACTIVISTS SHOULD
JUST SIT DOWN AND MEDITATE,"
AND I KIND OF THOUGHT, "THESE
MEDITATORS OUGHT TO GET UP
AND DO SOMETHING
AND STOP THIS WAR,"
AND WE REALIZED HERE WE ARE NOW.
WE'RE ALL IN IT TOGETHER
DOING WHATEVER'S OUR PART,
AND LUCKILY NOW I MEDITATE,
AND NOW HE HAS A SHOW
BRINGING VOICES OUT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE DOING ALL KINDS
OF THINGS
BECAUSE WE'VE SEEN
THAT IT'S REALLY --
THERE DOESN'T NEED TO BE
A DIVIDE BETWEEN THOSE THINGS.
-MEDITATION AND ACTION.
MOST OF US ARE HABITUAL
ON THE ACTION SIDE.
LESS OF US FALL ON THE SIDE
OF MEDITATION,
AND EVEN FEWER
FOUND THE BRIDGE LESS TRAVELED
THAT CONNECTS THE TWO.
WE MOSTLY LIKE THINGS
TO BE COMPLICATED,
LIKE A TEENAGER GETTING BORED
OF OLD VIDEO GAMES
WHEN THEY GET TOO EASY.
THE PASSAGE THROUGH EACH LEVEL
OF THE GAME
GETS INCREASINGLY MORE COMPLEX
TO MAKE IT A CHALLENGE EQUAL
TO THE ONE BEING CHALLENGED,
SIMILAR TO THE LADDER
THAT A BUSINESSMAN CLIMBS.
EACH RUNG MEANS
ADDED RESPONSIBILITY.
WE LIKE THIS
BECAUSE WE FEEL PRODUCTIVE.
THOSE OF US AFFLICTED WITH
A NEED FOR PRODUCING RESULTS
AND BEING ACTIVE MAY FAIL TO SEE
THE VALUE IN MEDITATION
DUE TO NEVER HAVING EXPERIENCED
THE EFFECTS OF IT.
MEDITATION IS AS IMPORTANT
TO ACTION
AS THE EXHALE IS TO THE INHALE.
EVERYTHING YOU ACT UPON
CAUSES NOISE
TO NAVIGATE YOUR CIRCUITRY,
ECHOING THROUGH YOUR MIND.
EVERY NEW THING YOU EXPERIENCE
BRINGS THE NOISE BACK TO LIFE
LIKE WIND THROUGH THE CHIMES.
WHEN THERE'S SO MUCH NOISE,
YOU CAN'T EVEN HEAR THE WHISPER
OF YOUR CONSCIENCE.
YOU NEED TO EXHALE.
TOO MUCH NOISE GOES IN,
LITTLE COMES OUT.
SOME NOISES ARE ANCIENT --
CHILDHOOD NOISE THAT NEVER GOT
A QUIET MOMENT FROM YOU
TO CONSIDER WHAT MESSAGE
IT HOLDS,
SO IT HIDES DOWN
IN THE BASEMENT OF YOUR MIND,
TO BE BROUGHT UP
AT AN UNEXPECTED MOMENT
AND REMIND YOU THAT YOU HAVEN'T
FORGOT A THING IN YOUR LIFE.
YOU CHOSE TO IGNORE IT.
MEDITATION WHITTLES DOWN
THE NOISE
AND LEAVES YOU WITH A SIMPLE
AND BEAUTIFUL MESSAGE.
THAT MESSAGE, ONCE HEARD,
WILL CHANGE THE WORLD.
-I WOULD SAY THE ESSENCE
OF THE THRIVE MOVEMENT
IS EMPOWERING
SELF-CREATING MOVEMENTS.
WE NEVER LOOKED TO CREATE
SOME GIANT ORGANIZATION
THAT WE WERE GOING TO CENTRALIZE
CONTROL OVER.
THAT'S NOT THE WAY NATURES WORK.
IT WOULDN'T WORK
FOR THIS PURPOSE.
AND THE CORE OF THAT,
THE CORE OF THE SOLUTIONS
TO ALL OF THE PROBLEMS,
AS FAR AS I'M CONCERNED,
IS ETHICS --
IS FUNDAMENTALLY THAT NO ONE HAS
THE RIGHT TO VIOLATE ANYONE ELSE
EXCEPT IN TRUE SELF-DEFENSE,
IF THEY'RE BEING VIOLATED.
SO IN THE THRIVE MOVEMENT,
WHEN --
THERE'S OVER 800
SOLUTIONS GROUPS
HAVE ALREADY JOINED THE THRIVE
MOVEMENT FROM OVER 90 COUNTRIES,
AND THE ONLY TWO THINGS
THAT WE ASK OF THEM,
IF THEY'RE GOING TO BE PART
OF THAT NETWORK,
IS, ONE, THAT THEY USE
THE SECTOR MODEL,
THAT THEY USE THE SAME SECTORS
SO THAT WE CAN COLLABORATE
IN A SYNERGETIC WAY
WITHOUT DILUTING THE ENERGY
ON A GLOBAL SCALE.
BUT THE MAIN ONE
IS THAT THEIR SOLUTIONS
NEED TO INVOLVE NOT CREATING
ANY NEW VIOLATIONS OF ANYONE.
AND THAT HAS ACTUALLY FILTERED
OUT A NUMBER OF GROUPS
BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK
THAT THEY HAVE
THE RIGHT ANSWERS,
AND SO THEY'RE GOING TO
IMPOSE IT ON OTHER PEOPLE.
SO, FOR ME, ONE OF MY TEACHERS
IN ETHICAL PHILOSOPHY,
STEFAN MOLYNEUX,
SAID IT VERY BEAUTIFULLY.
HE SAID THAT,
"REASON LEADS TO VIRTUE,
AND VIRTUE LEADS TO HAPPINESS."
AND THAT'S KIND OF AN EQUATION
FOR THE CORE ETHIC
THAT WE'RE SEEING
THAT IS, FIRST OF ALL, NECESSARY
IF WE'RE GOING TO SURVIVE,
MUCH LESS THRIVE AS A SPECIES.
WE HAVE TO FIND THIS CORE ETHIC
OF NON-VIOLATION.
AND SECONDLY,
THE MORE WE ALIGN WITH THAT
AND THE MORE EFFECTIVELY
WE COMMUNICATE IT,
THE MORE WE'RE DOING IT
ARTISTICALLY,
WHETHER THAT BE THROUGH
COMPASSIONATE SPEAKING
OR SINGING OR DANCING
OR FILMMAKING
OR MUSIC OR WHATEVER IT IS,
IT'S THAT CORE ALIGNMENT
WITH THE OBJECTIVE TRUTH
OF MORALITY --
OF CORE MORALITY --
THAT I THINK IS THE ESSENCE
OF THE THRIVE MOVEMENT
THAT WILL HAVE IT GO WAY BEYOND
ANYTHING WE ENVISION,
WAY BEYOND OUR LIFETIME,
BECAUSE IT'S REAL,
AND PEOPLE ARE CLAIMING IT AS
THEIR OWN IF IT FITS FOR THEM.
-AT THIS POINT IN THE INTERVIEW,
THE THRIVE MOVEMENT
BEGAN SOUNDING MORE AND MORE
LIKE A STAGE
UPON WHICH THE PROPS AND SET
ARE THERE
TO MAKE EVOLUTION EFFORTLESS
AND IRRESISTIBLE.
UPON A STAGE,
ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE.
ANY SCENARIO CAN PLAY OUT.
HOWEVER, THIS STAGE
TENDS TO DIRECT YOUR ATTENTION
TO WHAT REALLY MATTERS.
ON THIS STAGE,
YOU PAY ATTENTION TO THE PEOPLE,
NOT THE ADVERTISEMENTS.
FOSTER AND KIMBERLY ARE ALIGNED
ON THE AIM OF WAKING PEOPLE UP
FROM THE HYPNOSIS OF PLACING
THE PRIORITY OF POSSESSIONS
HIGHER THAN RELATIONSHIPS,
A STRANGE HYPNOSIS THAT LEADS TO
A LOSS OF PURPOSE AND MEANING.
IT ALWAYS SEEMS THAT THE PEOPLE
WHO FELT LOVE FOR ANOTHER HUMAN
ARE THE ONES WHO UNDERSTAND
THE SIMPLICITY
AND THE IMPORTANCE
OF APPROACHING ANY EVOLUTIONARY
MODEL OR MOVEMENT
FROM THE HEART
RATHER THAN THE HEAD.
THE HEAD ONLY TAKES CHARGE
WHEN THE HEART KNOWS NOT
WHAT IT WANTS.
BUT ANY HEART THAT HAS TASTED
THE REAL THING
SETS FIRE TO THE MIND
AND REORGANIZES ITS PRIORITIES.
ROB, IN THE PAGE FAMILY,
SAYS IT BEST.
IF ANY PLATFORM
FOR LARGE-SCALE PLANETARY CHANGE
IS OFFERED TO HUMANITY,
ITS ONLY CHANCE AT SURVIVING
PEOPLE'S SHORT ATTENTION SPAN
IS BY KEEPING IT ADAPTABLE,
FUELING IT DAILY
WITH NEW INSPIRATION,
THE SAME WAY A COUPLE TRIMS
ANY UNNECESSARY DRAMA
OUT OF THE RELATIONSHIP
OVER TIME.
ANY MOVEMENT THAT THE PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO STICK WITH
MUST BE INSPIRING TO EVERYONE.
AND AS WE MENTIONED
IN THE PREVIOUS EPISODES,
INSPIRATION CHANGES
WITH EVERY PASSING MOMENT,
WHICH MEANS THAT THE MODEL
WE WOULD HAVE TO BUILD
IN ORDER TO REPRESENT
WHAT WE WANT TO WORK TOWARDS
WOULD HAVE TO BE
INSTANTANEOUSLY ADAPTABLE.
WHEN YOU TAKE SOMETHING IN ITS
RAW FORM, CHANGING IT IS EASY,
BUT FIRST, YOU HAVE TO ENVISION
THE DIRECTION YOU MUST TAKE
TO MAKE IT REPRESENT
WHAT YOU SEEK FROM IT.
WHITTLING IT DOWN,
LITTLE BY LITTLE,
EVERY LITTLE CHANGE YOU MAKE
TO IT
UNCOVERS SOMETHING ELSE YOU
WEREN'T EVEN ABLE TO CONSIDER
UNTIL YOU MADE THAT ADJUSTMENT.
EACH LAYER YOU PEEL BACK
REVEALS UNSEEN OBSTACLES
AND UNEXPECTED BEAUTY.
IT HAS TO HAPPEN IN A PROCESS.
EACH EVENT LEADS TO THE NEXT,
AND THEN,
GRADUALLY AND CONSISTENTLY,
THE VISION STARTS TO DIAL IN.
WHAT WAS ONCE A RAW IDEA
HAS NOW BEEN PUT THROUGH
A PROCESS OF ART.
THE IDEA EMERGES
FROM THAT PROCESS REBORN,
COMPLETELY NEW,
YET MADE UP OF ALL THAT IS OLD,
SHOWING US THAT THE BEAUTY
OF ANY IDEA
IS HIDDEN WITHIN IT
UNTIL THE ARTIST REVEALS IT.
AND NOW THE WRINKLES OF AGE
SET IN
TO TELL THE STORY
THAT IS BEING WRITTEN
RIGHT NOW IN FRONT OF US.
EVERY MOMENT OF YOUR LIFE
IS AN ALTERATION
OF THE RAW THING
YOU WERE GIVEN AT BIRTH.
WHATEVER YOU CONSIDER
YOUR LIFE TO BE,
HOWEVER YOU CHOOSE TO VIEW IT,
IT IS A RESULT OF CARVING AWAY
AND WHITTLING DOWN THE STORY
OF THE ROAD YOU TOOK,
AND AT EVERY SECOND,
YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO MAKE A NEW ROAD
AND CHANGE THAT STORY.
I LIKE KNOWING THAT PEOPLE THIS
PASSIONATE FOR ONE ANOTHER EXIST
BECAUSE I SEE WHERE THEIR VISION
COMES FROM,
LIKE A MOTHER WHO LOVES
HER CHILD UNCONDITIONALLY.
THAT SAME UNCONDITIONAL PATIENCE
AND ADAPTABLE ATTENTION
IS THE ONLY PLACE TO APPROACH
CHANGE ON A PLANETARY SCALE.
FOSTER AND KIMBERLY
ARE JUST TWO PEOPLE
THAT CAN SEE THE ELEPHANT
IN THE ROOM
THAT NO ONE IS ADDRESSING,
AND THEY INTEND TO ADDRESS IT
TO EVERYONE WHO CAN'T SEE IT,
AND THAT'S MOST OF US.
THEY SEEM TO APPROACH THE ETHICS
OF THE THRIVE MOVEMENT
BASED UPON THE DEEPEST LESSONS
THEIR LIVES HAVE TAUGHT THEM.
HUMBLE AND HONEST,
IT WAS REFRESHING TO HEAR WHAT
INSPIRES KIMBERLY EVERY DAY.
-I'M WATCHING MY WRINKLY ARMS
AND HANDS AND STUFF,
AND I JUST LOVE IT.
I FEEL SO GRATEFUL
THAT I LOVE IT,
'CAUSE I KNOW THE WHOLE
AGING THING IN THIS CULTURE
IS JUST HORRIBLE FOR WOMEN.
IT'S LIKE IF YOU'RE NOT YOUNG,
THERE'S NO USE FOR YOU.
AND THANKFULLY,
I'M NOT EXPERIENCING THAT,
AND INSTEAD, I'M FEELING IT
LIKE MY BODY'S THIS CONSTANT
SPIRITUAL TEACHER
BECAUSE IT'S SO TRANSIENT,
LIKE EVERYTHING,
AND I'M WATCHING MYSELF KIND OF
WRINKLE OUT OF IT IN SOME WAY.
-OKAY.
AGAIN, IT TOOK ME
A COUPLE LISTENS
TO GET HOW MANY LAYERS
YOU CAN FIND IN HER ANALOGY.
THE BODY IS A TEACHER
BECAUSE IT NEVER STOPS CHANGING.
YOU CAN'T PRESS "PAUSE"
AND ASK FOR A NEW ONE.
YOU SIMPLY FIND A WAY TO ACCEPT
THE ONE THAT YOU ALREADY HAVE
AND EMBRACE THE FACT THAT,
EVENTUALLY, YOU'LL GIVE IT BACK.
SO THE VERY FACT
THAT YOU LIVE YOUR LIFE
THROUGH THIS THING
YOU CALL YOUR BODY --
MEAT AND BONES,
BLOOD AND ELECTRICITY --
FROM THE CRADLE TO THE GRAVE,
YOU ARE STILL GETTING TO KNOW
THIS THING, YOUR BODY.
EVERY TIME YOU THINK YOU HAVE IT
FIGURED OUT, IT CHANGES.
THINGS YOUR BODY COULDN'T HANDLE
BEFORE ARE NOW PRIMED AND READY.
THINGS IT LOVED TO DO BEFORE
ARE NOW PAINFUL.
AND THEN, IT SLOWLY SLIPS AWAY,
AND YOU CAN NO LONGER
CALL IT YOURS.
UNDERSTANDING
THAT THERE'S ONLY A SHORT TIME
TO FIGURE YOURSELF OUT HERE,
IT CAN AT LEAST BE A STORY
YOU ENJOY HEARING.
IF LEGENDARY CHANGE
IS AT THE DOOR,
THERE'S NO POINT
IN KEEPING IT WAITING.
AND CHANGE IS A FAMILY AFFAIR.
WHEN YOU CHANGE,
THE WHOLE DYNAMIC OF THE PEOPLE
AROUND YOU WILL SHIFT.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE LET
CONSPIRACY THEORIES
AND PSYCHEDELIC RABBIT HOLES
BECOME MORE IMPORTANT
THAN EXPLORING THE MIND-ALTERING
AND PARADIGM-SHATTERING FORCE
OF THE HEART.
GETTING CARRIED AWAY
IN DIMENSIONS OF MORALITY,
IDEAS OF SPIRITUALITY,
AND THEORIES OF THE OCCULT
ARE ALL MEANINGLESS
WITHOUT EXPERIENCING THEM.
REMEMBER, YOU ARE WHITTLING DOWN
THE EXCESS OF YOUR LIFE
TO REVEAL WHO YOU REALLY ARE,
AND SOMETIMES THE ONLY ONES
WHO CAN SEE WHO WE TRULY ARE
HAPPEN TO BE THE ONES
WE CHOOSE TO LOVE, TRUST,
AND EXPLORE THIS NEW ROAD WITH.
-THAT IS THE ART
OF THE STRUGGLE.
IT'S HOW TO BE BOTH DISTINCT
AND TRUE TO OURSELVES
AND TRULY UNITED WITH ANOTHER.
THAT'S THE DANCE
THAT WAS A CHALLENGE FOR ME.
I THINK IT'S A CHALLENGE
IN GENERAL IN RELATIONSHIPS
AND IN COMMUNITIES
AND COUNTRY TO COUNTRY
AND PLANET TO PLANET.
YOU KNOW, IT'S LIKE,
"HOW DO YOU STAY SOVEREIGN
AND STILL IN UNION?"
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL, BECAUSE
I WAS SO FIERCELY INDEPENDENT
THAT, FOR ME, IT WAS MUCH HARDER
TO JUST KIND OF MELT
INTO A RELATIONSHIP,
AND I FEEL LIKE I'VE BEEN ABLE
TO DO THAT WITH YOU,
AND I'M REALLY GRATEFUL.
-TO HAVE THE JUST KIND
OF HONORING AND COMPASSION
THAT A TRUE LOVER IS
AND THAT I AM GETTING
TO EXPERIENCE WITH KIMBERLY
GIVES ME STRENGTH
BEYOND ANYTHING THAT I KNEW
WAS POSSIBLE,
AND THAT TURNS AROUND
AND HAS ME TAKE LIMITS OFF
WHAT I THINK IS POSSIBLE FOR ME
TO ACCOMPLISH DURING MY LIFETIME
BECAUSE OF THE STRENGTH AND
VALIDATION OF THIS PARTNERSHIP,
SO I'M TRULY GRATEFUL.